In this step, we would want to create the service to retrieve all the users. Right now we have the user resource
which is actually talking to the in-memory list.
We would want to make it talk to the embedded database.
What I’ll do is I’ll create this user resource again. I’ll copy and paste it in. So I’ll create a user, I’ll call
this user JPA resource.
So I don't want to disturb the existing resource that would serve as a reference for us all the time.
So I'll rename this to user JPA resource and I’ll slowly convert the services in here from the dao service
which is talking to arraylist, static array list do something called a user repository which will
create queries.
One of the things that you would see is the server would crash because we would have now two urls mapping
to slash users.
So we have user jpa resource and user resource. To separate them out
what I’ll do is add a JPA to all the resources so I’ll say slash JPA as the thing which I would put in front
of all the resources.
Now we are very sure. Right? So
whenever I say slash jpa users, it’s coming to the user jpa service. Important thing for
you to remember is  even though we're calling a JPA, it’s not really talking to the database yet.
We will do that very soon.
The first thing we would need to do to be able to talk to an entity, what we would need to do? We would need
to create a spring data repository.
So, how do we do that? Create a new class, I’ll  call this user repository.
What is this?
This is a at repository.
Let's put an annotation on it to signify that. Import the repository please.
And also the other important thing is this should be a interface actually this is not a class.
The repository is an interface.
And what does it extend?
As we lookedat the JPA part of the course, a user repository, we would want to use JPA.
So we'll use something called JPA repositoy. Let’s import the JPA repository and then we need to say what
is the entity that needs to be managed. The entity that needs to be managed is user.
And what is the primary key of it? The primary key
of it is integer. As simple as that.
Now you have the user repository ready.
So what I'll do is now I would want to make use of the user repository
in our user JPA resource.
How do we do that?
Think about it. All that we need to do is very simple, right? Private user repository
I'll call this user repository.
And what else do we need to do?
We need to autowire it in as well.
So right now the user repository is not really used at all.
That's not a problem.
We'll fix that very soon.
And now I can use the data from the user repository. So I don't want to use the data from the
list user repository dot find all. Actually one of the things that we have already followed…tried to follow
to an extent is
whenever we were creating the service, user dao service, we tried to name the things with the repository
convention that’s we could see all that I needed to change was user repository dot find all. Now the retrive
all users is the only method which is making use of the user repository. All the other methods are
getting it from the static array list.
This is the only one which is actually getting the data from the embedded database.
So let's go ahead and see what is happening.
Let’s create a request to this. So JPA slash users. I’d  want to send a get request. You can see that
the date at the bottom of your screen that is coming up is AB, Jill
and other stuff. So this is data which is coming from where? This is data which is coming from our embedded
database.
However, if you go ahead and say user slash one the data which would be coming back… what is the data
that would be coming back?
It's Adam. This is still picking it from the in memory list.
So let's change that.
So now users, I would get AB back.
So if AB is coming back that's perfect it's coming from JPA database.
OK!
Now if I want to change the user also to get it from our embedded database how do we do that?
It's very simple.
What we would need to do is change the service. So user repository dot…
So the thing is the method in the JPA has been changed.
It's no longer a find one. It’s called find by id.
So let's say fine by Id. I would need to pass the Id in and the other thing is the type of the user is
no longer user. One of the important things is find by Id returns an optional of user.
This is to ensure that whether user is null or not null, this would return a proper object.
So this is actually one of the new concepts.
So whenever you try and find by an Id, there are two possibilities - the id exists or not. And when it
does not exist.
This really comes back with a proper object.
So, it will not be null.
So the way I can check whether the user is there or not is not by user is equal to null.
But by using user dot is present. So I'm checking if user is present.
So this is coming back as a proper object. This is no longer a null. And what I would need to do to get
the actual user is say user dot get.
Now I can save this. Wait for the server to pick up the change and I would fire another get request
to slash one. I'm getting a response 401…404
not found with the message as id 1.
Actually I made a small mistake.
So if you look at this code which we have written probably you have already found the bug.
I'm using user dot is present but actually I should do the reverse.
I would say, I shouldn't need to say
If not user dot is present then throw the exception. If user is not present then I would need
to throw the exception. Let’s fire the request again.
Now you would see that I'm getting a AB back. So AB with his birthdate and the links to JPA.
Slash user is coming back.
This is perfect.
This is cool.
In this step, what we focused on was trying to convert couple of services.
We used JPA slash user, JPA slash users id and we took these services and we converted them to use JPA.
We saw that it was really easy. All that we need to create was, create a repository and we were able to
manage the entity and retrieve the values back. Very easy.
Until the next step, bye-bye.